---
{"dg-publish":true,"permalink":"/cybersecurity/penetration-tester/imap/"}
---

IMAP allows online management of emails directly on the server and supports folder structures. Thus, it is a network protocol for the online management of emails on a remote server. The protocol is client-server-based and allows synchronization of a local email client with the mailbox on the server, providing a kind of network file system for emails, allowing problem-free synchronization across several independent clients. POP3, on the other hand, does not have the same functionality as IMAP, and it only provides listing, retrieving, and deleting emails as functions at the email server. Therefore, protocols such as IMAP must be used for additional functionalities such as hierarchical mailboxes directly at the mail server, access to multiple mailboxes during a session, and preselection of emails.

The client establishes the connection to the server via port `143`. For communication, it uses text-based commands in `ASCII` format. Several commands can be sent in succession without waiting for confirmation from the server. Later confirmations from the server can be assigned to the individual commands using the identifiers sent along with the commands. Immediately after the connection is established, the user is authenticated by user name and password to the server. Access to the desired mailbox is only possible after successful authentication.

SMTP is usually used to send emails. By copying sent emails into an IMAP folder, all clients have access to all sent mails, regardless of the computer from which they were sent. Another advantage of the Internet Message Access Protocol is creating personal folders and folder structures in the mailbox.